---
comments: true
layout: post
title: Download 2010
categories:
- Fun
---

IT WAS AMAZING! No really it was probably the best 2 days of my entire life. It started out with AC/DC's last 2 songs (I went from work so missed the start) and ended with rain! I missed seeing a few bands that I really wanted to see but all the others were just amazing so I couldn't leave.

I am burnt to a crisp from the sun and battered from the mosh pits, tired from no sleep and cover in mud but it was all worth it! It was one of the most mental decisions made in the past few years, just days before it opened I got the tickets. With no planning at all and hardly any funds put to one side I set off for the weekend of my life. Only regrets are going alone and missing a friends 18th party, everything else was perfect. The most amazing things happened this weekend, the most noticeable was RATM.

RATM are the only band I have ever seen to fill the stage completely and have *everyone* jumping around just mins in, the security even stopped the music and asked everyone to move back! It was totally un-real, just feet from the front totally rocking it out. The only band I am really really really sad about missing are FlyLeaf, I have never seen them live and want too so badly. Found out they were on after it happened :'(

I can't even begin to describe what it was like, if you weren't there you don't know just think WOOOOOOOOOOOOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!! while jumping up and down and running around and into people!

So to round up it was 500000000000000000000% amazing and I will be going next year no matter what, I'll also be taking my best friend ever and swear I'll be dating someone by then. Lots shall change the only thing constant will be my love for music. Now to do some of that work I left at the weekend! Got loads of new bands to listen too while coding now though =D
